Okay. See, welcome back. Couple. Pieces of housekeeping. So, the plant for this week, On Friday, there's the exam that will be an in class exam. Up all supposed to seasonal outfits on canvas. I think what we'll do is you can prepare one sheet. How's your own handwritten? Like equation, sheets. Okay. And yeah, so that's going to be, you know, in classic Sam. For Friday. Okay. Today there's just two, two more things I want to cover about about kinematics. I took two more things that will be the protector be relative to the test. Up. And then we're going to have the second makeup on Tuesday. Okay. That will that will be Tuesday at 10:00 10:00 a.m. I have to book a room for that and we can use that as kind of you know, just a general discussion. So whatever you guys want to talk about. We could do that on Tuesday. Again, I'll record that and put the video online for those who can't make it. And then we're going to switch gears to start talking about dynamics.

Yeah,

I have to book the room stuff. Yeah, I think hopefully it's going to be weekend. It's going to be somewhere mean, either the normal one or the time. Okay. Good and I'll post the homework too solutions. Today those will be on Canvas. There's no homework this week.

Okay.

Good. So there's yeah like I said there's two things I want to I want to wrap up. About

kinematics. My truck. The

first thing is about acceleration. Okay, so that's something we haven't really talked about. And that's So

we can. Acceleration.

And relativity, right? Until the idea is we have this frame that's moving. It's some big beta and we know this as prime frame and we know X prime is we now know that. T prime is different. We know what it is. I think there could be things moving in this frame, right? It could be moving it ahead. At an accident, why? Right? And we talk when we figured out formulas. So if you know what? How it's moving an x and y, How's it moving in s, right? These velocity edition formulas. And so natural thing you might ask, especially how I keep it how important it is in Newtonian mechanics is how does the acceleration? How does acceleration transform if I have an acceleration? Again, this is a vector so they'll be components. Right. How does this? What does this look like in a non-prime frame? Okay, so again, we know We we kind of work this out because we know what beta is, right? So we know that beta in the non-prime frame and the s frame, Has this funny formula. It's the what you would expect, right? Just a velocity edition but then it has the stenominator that prevents it from going above one.

So

we know that and we know, we know why. Similarly just has the And why prime has a factor gamma and bottom and it has the same.

Okay, so now what we can

do is we can work out. What what a is in the non-prime frame. My calculating

so eight.

Let's let's do a x. Right, we can we can do the beta. XDT. Right? And we know what DT is so so we we calculated the DT when we when we figured out how the bit, just the beta's transform. Right. It's just a differential

for rent transformation.

For the DT. Is. Is what it's like beta gamma. DX Prime plus gamma. You keep trying. Okay, and this is how we get this juicy denominator, right? If we factor out a gamma And a DT. They get paid off. Need to find x + 1. Okay, so that's that's the denominator but now the numerator is going to be is going to be complicated, right? Because so we want to take the differential of this. This side. But there's two things that we can change, is this beta x. But there's two pieces, right? I can change the numerator, the denominator And so it's going to get a little ugly, right? So if you do, The beta x. You're going to get the first term. Where the derivative just gets the numerator. Right? And then you're going to get the second term. Which would be plus the derivative of the bottom and the derivative of the bottom because it's to the minus one. Pulls out of minus one. And I have one plus. Beta beta the whole thing to the to the -2. And then I take, The numerator that I'm not paying the derivative. And then I have the derivative of the inside. Which is beta. Be

better acts. Right.

So just chain roll. I'm just hitting this thing with chain rule. By the derivative of the numerator, that's the first piece. Then I have the derivative of the denominator, which is the second piece that the minus sign.

The first. This

is Rob.

Yep. Okay.

And then just algebra, right? I can write this as Well, maybe I'll let you guys do this for homework. You can multiply this by one. Yeah, I make the same comment denominator and then you're going to get the factor out the DVD. EBay. The Prime, some terms are going to cancel and you're going to be left with. I claim you would be left with eBay, the X. Time is. Can a squared one plus. Thanks, and now we have the squares. And so now from this and from the DT, we can calculate A EBay to ask DT. And that's going to look like, Again, I'll let you Do the algebra. 1. Minus beta square, the numerator, a gamma. OnePlus beta prime x. Made a cubed. And

I guess that's

I guess I could really write this as gamma 3. Okay. Right? So it's complicated. You're getting these gamma. The cube, you have this. Coefficient, that comes from the DX or the DT that's cubed. Okay, and it's going to get worse. So now you're going to do the Y Right. And when you do the, why see now it's even ugly or because You have a beta wine numerator and a beta x in the denominator. So you had this nice cancellation. That happens here is not going to happen

with the D woman.

May take the better, why? Okay, so again this is this is going to be maybe for homework. When you do debate a while, again, I'm just taking differentials doing chain rule dividing by the DT. You're going to get. Debated DT is going to equal. Acceleration in the prime frame and the y-axis. Game of Squared. 1 + beta. Xvideo. Minus. Beta beta y prime. A prime in the x direction. Over again. 1 + 5 beta.

Okay,

so what I want to stress here, we don't really use these for a couple reasons {question-mark}. That's always absence.

Okay.

So what I want to point out is It's not invariant. Another question.

How to serve to.

How was your grandma that shows

up?

You're going to cuz when you multiply this out, You have a minus here, you're going to multiply one beta. Times this, and you're going to get some

cancellations. Oh, is there going to be like a woman?

Yeah, exactly. Okay. And so, what? I want to again, I encourage you guys to go through this

algebra.

It's not that deep. You're not going to learn much doing it, but you'll verify that you'll find them sticks in these formulas that I run on the board. But what i want to say is, it's not invariant Okay, it changes. You haven't acceleration in one frame. It's this is like this is a y it's not just equal to AY prime or you have this complicated thing. It's the expressions are complicated and not only is it not a very transforms, a different ways, right? Ax just depends on a x prime. And beta x. The acceleration and y depends on the acceleration on both dimensions. I took, it's in it's, it's not only did not variant the different coordinates. Transformers very different ways.

Okay.

So the main lesson, another question. Only the frame is moving along ax yet. What's happening with the particle in the front? Exactly. Right, and no compare this to If compare this to Galilean transformations. I got land transformations, accelerations invariant Right. You have deep prime. He prime is equal to v +. Some constant. The ass. And now you take a derivative of this is constant dies. Acceleration, equals and acceleration. Okay. So acceleration does not have this exalted position that it has in Newtonian papers. Right? You turning physics. F, = m. A A is invariant. It's as beautiful, you know, things telling you about physics. No longer the case in relativity. Okay, expressions are complicated. Transform a different ways? So the main lesson here is that these accelerations especially later in the week are going to have limited and questionable value in relativity. Of course, sometimes you want to know what the accelerations are and you'll have to use these formulas. But this we shouldn't try to build the theory. To make, you know, to have some deep understanding what's happening here.

So but I think was I may still hold it, right?

Well we'll get to that, it's not going. The constraints you have to write. I mean, it's It's more of an exercise to the reader, right? I mean, you know, I think you're not going to write down anything on that cheat that's really going to be valuable. I think the exercise of constructing the street cheat is going to be useful for you.

So,

you know, Be reasonable. I would say, use a sheet. Handwritten notes. Back to my glasses. Okay good. So, Any questions?

What is the phrase? I'm sorry.

If the frames accelerating then you're not in inertial frame.

And

that's a difference. A whole different subject. Yeah. I mean, can you like proof was made like This proof was made, it's solely incorporated, special activities. Accelerations are small. Then you could always look at the small time step and they're roughly constant. So the Microphone more of the experiment was done on earth. Right. Earth is You're not going around the sun since accelerating. She can always assume locally that it's not accelerating frame. If the accelerations are really violent, then it's not going to be enough, it's not going to work. It's just a bad frame to use. Okay. So this is the first thing i wanted, i wanted to talk about very quickly. It's just, you know, again algebra this is the main thing once, you know, once you know what these are, how the velocity is transform, you can take a differential and get how the acceleration is transformed. And it's not pretty.

Yeah, that's the that's the Paper.

Okay, any further questions about acceleration? This is the in Galileo. This is true. This is true, which means a prime equals. A And announcement thing.

Okay, so now

what I want to talk about is the relation of the larynge transformations, which are so important right there, the whole first part of this class, To the geometric analogy.

Okay.

And you guys had a homework problem that was kind of getting at this. And I wanted you to kind of work out the algebra. And now, we're really going to see what the

intuition is here.

I tell if you remember the Soviet, These coordinate transformations. Came out of the invariant, right? So so we We impose the invariant. And we saw that. The measured coordinates have to transform in this way. Okay, and then from this we derived all these crazy things time, dilation length contraction

velocity edition, all the stuff

Right. And you know, the first part of the class, I was really emphasizing that. She should have this geometric intuition. Right? It's it's really just changing coordinate systems. It's not new. It's just there's the the invarian slightly different, because this is minus sign. Right, and so now, the question is These transformations look nothing like what you would have in a geometric transformation. Right? And in the geometric transformation, you usually have like cosine, Sign minus sign, minus sign cosine. Right. And here are everything's that, you know, it's the same sign and give these different I different things. And so the question is, is there a way that we can map this back? To this geometric. Okay, and that's what I want to. That's what I want to. The, the homework problem. And where we're going with. This is Well, let me just do that. So let me just write it. So if you have to let's again this is the rest transformation. Now let's think of this geometry. XY space. And I have a y prime. We're in here and x prime here.

Okay? And I and the homework

question was saying, you can you can choose the character out. Usually, we would characterize this by an angle, right? But you can instead choose to characterize it by the slope of the x prime axis? In the xy, corn is saying,

Thanks,

I really like. If you go, you take a step of one here. What is? What is this? M? Right? Where I think I had it. I wrote it as b,

a couple feet. Okay

and so this is it turns out this is enough, right? What I want you to slow up that fixes where the slope of the y-axis is because they have to be orthogonal And so, you can either choose to write this in terms of an angle or you could choose a right in terms of the slope of one of the axes. All right, and would you feel about this is if you do that, then you get something. That looks almost exactly like the

wrench transformation.

Until you get. And this is what you're showing homework. You get X and Y. Equals some generalized gamma which already G. A beta gamma which I ride is BG. And another BG and then another G.

Okay,

and there's differences, okay? It's not exactly the same because the geometry is different. You have this different minus sign. And the invariant. And so there's a minus sign that shows up here and if And that the, the G Is not exactly gamma, but it's One of the square root of 1 + b² Okay, so it's again, you know, you shouldn't expect it exactly the same because it's a different. Yeah, just an allergy but it's a much closer analogy. Then

the, the five. Okay,

and so now you can So, if you think about doing geometry, you would never do it this way, right? Hopefully, hopefully you've never seen this. They didn't show you this in geometry class. Cuz this is kind of a stupid way to talk about rotations. Right. And so why is it stupid? It's stupid. Because if you do two of these, The, the betas don't act. The slopes don't act and we'll see that in a second. Okay, and so the motivation of this is, if this is a stupid way to talk about rotations, Maybe this is a stupid way to talk about the rent's

transformations.

Okay, so that's the intuition and we're going to see indeed. There's a better way to talk about transformations. And that will be motivated. Exactly from the way that the natural way to talk about rotations. So, why is this such a bad way to talk about? Angle. Okay, it's a bad way to talk about angles. Because, Well, because they don't act right. So so why are angles better? So now let's I should have. Different colors, but let's now do Multiple. We're still in the geometry land, right? So now we have, we're going to have three coordinates. 3/4 system, x1 y1. And here's why too. Y2. And then, we're going to have y3x3.

Okay.

And so if these, if you wanted to transform from X3 to X1, Right. If you had angles, you could just do this. Let's say this is theta. To three that takes you from the 3:00 to 2:00. And you this is sorry, this is X2. If you had this data that takes you from 3:00 to 2:00 and you knew what this data is. It takes you from 2 to 1:00. Then the combined theta to go from one to three. Say the one three would just be. Say the one two plus theta 2 3. All right, so the the angles have Heather, they're a nice transformation. They have a nice transformation property. Okay, however, the slopes don't do this. Right, and you can kind of guess. Based on just the form of this, right? This is so similar to the restaurant information. Maybe again, maybe I'll have this for homework if you try to do the combined. If you try to do the combined stuff, so if I'm giving you the slope of the x3 axis, And the x2 frame. Right. That's what I mean by B. I guess, B3. I'll give you B3 which is X3 in x2 frame. And I'll give you B2. Which is x2 in the x1 frame. I want X3 and the X1 frame, or I'm with B3 in the extra. That's one frame. Right. So, my claim is that this, this combined The combined slope if you work this out. So, the way to do this, Is it calculate what x and y is when you do the red transformation or this is not worth saturation. But this Transformation twice. Once with B, once with the b2 and then what's with the B3? Are you do this transformation? If you get value for x, And for why, and you divide them, that's going to give you the combined slope in the x1 y1 plan. Okay, and let me write it down. This is going to be.

This is like the combined. So this is like the

slope. This is like the slope of the one and the three frame. Slope of the three axis in the one frame. So that, so the slope of the three axis in the one frame is equal to slope of the Three axis in the two frame, plus the slope of the two axis and the one frame. And then divided by this factor of numerator.

Okay.

And hopefully this doesn't come as a complete shock, right? When we try to do that, when we did the exact same thing with Lawrence transformations, we saw that they didn't simply add, but you had this goofy factor and the denominator and that's coming because both the y and the x transform. {Question-mark}. Well, I thought you were just multiply this out.

You just multiply two by two. Because there's a very nice way of doing it.

Sure, if you get that. Okay, the point is the point is This isn't, you know, this is a nice way to express x. The x prime coin is in the exy frame. If that's all you care about. But if you care about adding care about going between two frames, or if you have a slope in the x prime frame that you want to express in the non-prime frame, it's not a good way to do it because they they don't they don't have Right, it's a complicated addition formula. Again, it's and this should be reminiscent of the the beta edition formulas, there's going to be minus sign differences cuz the invarian is different. But this is saying that there's a much more natural way to do this with angles. That you should think. It turns an angles not in terms of these slugs. Okay, and this is why the angles are much more natural.

Okay. So again

These things don't add but the angles do add. Yeah, any questions about that? Okay, good. So this motivates us to find an analogy for the angle.

Right,

so so we know what the analogy is for for the slope, it's beta. But is there, you know, can we come up with some parameter? That's that's additive for the rent's transformation? Cuz that would make our life really easy, right? That we don't have to go through these Complicated. Edition formulas. And well, hopefully can't insight onto. The physics behind it. Okay, everybody. Happy Okay, so again, this is a motivation. Thinking about this geometry is a motivation for trying to find some new thing that we're going to call the velocity

parameter. Okay, we don't know

what it is yet. Glossy parameter. Ada. Which is additive.

Okay.

This is like a fancy end. Yeah. Ada, which is going to be additive and it's going to be the analog in Lawrence and geometry to the data. In the geometric case. Okay. So what I mean by additive I mean if you know what the velocity parameter is In the prime frame. Right. And you know what the velocity parameter is that describes, the relative motion between frames Call that Ada. Like A to S. Then the Ada in the non-prime frame is just the sum. The simple sum Of the two. Might kind of like we had and got left. Okay, so, so the question is now what is this atopram? Right. And no, whatever it is. It's not going to be. It can't be just an angle, right? It's not going to be a simple angle. You know, before we had You don't like it like it like over if it's an angle then you then you just have a rotation right

x y.

It's a, it's a rotation. But we know that that's not what's going to happen, right? So this is what's happening in Jonathan. Euclidian geometry but we know for us if this is T and x Then the T prime. Axis is not rotating. Right. You're getting the squishing

And if this is the light, come,

You're getting x prime. I thought it's not just a simple rotation. There's some more complicated to go to some more complicated transform is. Describing this exquisition? Yeah, yeah. I mean it's a tangent. We know that if you if you have a Delta y and a Delta x, Hands in theta, is describing. It's describing. Is beta print be perimeter. And what we're going to see here is that there's a similar analogy but it's going to be the hyperbolic tangent. So I'm going to give you the answer and then we'll work out how we get this answer. It's the hyperbolic tangent. Ada. That is giving you beta. Okay, so this is where we're going and You know, I never remember about these hyperbock tangent. So let me just remind you What's cool about hyperbole tangents? So, they're kind of analogous to the regular tangents. The change Ada. Is equal to these other functions since Ada over cash. Okay, so this is to remind you tangent and sign over cosine. And just like with tangent. Tangent at 801. +82. H81 proceeded 2 is 801 +. 801. Okay, and this should be very familiar. I just looks just like the velocity edition. I said, this is also a big hint that these tangents Okay. And so, you know, just some intuition here about what these Put these things. Have you guys seen these hyperbolic functions before? Some not really? Yeah, I mean I forget what I was an undergrad. I think, you know, they showed up every now and then for You know, like we learn the derivatives of them and then we never really use them and then Baby. There was some integrals where they were important for. The intuition here I think is or you know sure there's a bunch of ways to look at this. A nice way I think is if you have if you take a sign of an imaginary angle,

We usually don't talk about sign

of the match your angles, but if you do that, you're going to get - I cinch?

Other of them. Imaginary.

Right? So it's basically what you get, you get, you get a cinch out, if you try to put in an imaginary, Angle. If you try to do it with cosign, Because cosine even you just kill the eye. Right. So so you just get out cash.

Caring about like the real representation, likely. Yeah, well, I mean so we're we're going to

deal with hands, really deal with pancakes. And these are always going to be real for

us. Well,

we'll see it. It's going to be relevant to figuring out that this is the right thing.

Okay,

questions about this. Okay, the other very important property about. So you know, this isn't obviously wrong because It's not obviously wrong because it gives you it has the right. Addition formulas. Another very important thing. It has the right limiting case. So Tang. Ada. Is like Ada for small, Ada.

Okay, and this

is, this is important. It's important to have this, right? Lemony case because we know that if beta is small, then the thing that the thing that transforms nicely on under addition is just the velocities, Right? They get in the Galilean case in glossy small, we want the combined, the combined, Beta to be. Beta prime plus relative beta. In order for that property to hold, you need this. To happen for small aida.

Yeah, so we're going to talk about that. In a second. Okay,

so again, I'm just telling you with the I'm telling you with the answer is Yeah, until I get the answer is in this, it's not obviously wrong because he's nice. Okay. So how can we see that this is right? I think there's a bunch of ways to do this. Well, actually, maybe before we do this. Let me, let me just draw with this tangent looks like.

Guess

another cool thing about Tange. So I'm drawing tantadas

a function of data.

So, I can go to the minus Infinity plus infinity. And it might as infinity it asymptotes to minus 1. Then around zero. It looks linear. That's this. I think I'm just talked about. And then it plus infinity. It goes to plus one.

Okay, so this is really cool because

it builds in the fact that there's this bound, this boundary Right? The boundary here is an asymptote. To the function itself. Worth before, you know with the betas. We just said okay yeah here's beta. It's some number and it can't be bigger than one. Right now, we understand what's happening, right? That beta can't be bigger than one because it's Describe for tangent of some number and that tangent just bounded. All right, so if you want the form, the analog form that, we're imposing built in this bound very naturally, Okay, and hopefully this I think this also Clarifies a bit, how you can have How's something can be the speed of light in all reference frames? Right. So that's something that really bugged me. When I first learned this happened, something moving very quickly. Shoot a light beam and the light baby still moving at the speed of light. Seems bizarre. So no if you're up here, if you're moving at with with can. So this is on this axis is tan age or tangent. So, if you're moving with the speed of light, that means tangenta is one. That means you're at Ada is plus infinity. Okay, so the speed of light is this extreme point. Right. So, if So Ada, let's say this is Ada the Earth. If you want to know what the speed of the light pulse is relative to the earth, It's the speed of the rocket, which maybe is some high velocity. Plus the speed of light. This is the speed of light and you want to know what it is in the speed of want to know what it is in the reference of Earth. Well, if n prime is infinity, You're going to get infinity, plus some high number. Speed of the rocket, but that's still going to be infinity. Like that's still going to be infinity until you're left with

something that's infinity.

So I think that's maybe perhaps some more intuitive way to see that. You, you know, the speed of light is already this extreme position. It's already in infinite, it's got an infinite value, so if you add to it, it's going to stay there.

Okay.

So again, so I think this is really the underlying reality. This is the nice way to think about it. Right? It's we should talk. We shouldn't talk in terms of bosses. We should talk in terms of this these Ada's And it's it's nice because they ask them coach the right place and it's linear in this region where we spend our lives, right? We live here. In 10 to the minus 3 in here and it's totally linear there. So we we don't see. We we don't see it has this extreme behavior on the ends. Because even, you know our rockets are like in here.

Looks like the highest velocity of any human thing has gotten in terms of

scene. Yeah, it's Human. I think it's going to be a rock, I guess, astronauts.

I heard, ah, kilometers per second. Okay.

Good. So again, this is. This is like, yeah, physics telling you about a deeper reality, you know? Or everyday lives are here. This is the deeper. This is the deeper thing and then I think this is a natural way to think about velocities. Okay, of course, you know, you're trained to do these ranch transformations. That can be interesting that that's That also, it'll explains. These measurement, paradoxes are parent paradoxes, but this is the real natural way to think about this. Okay, so why don't we usually think about this? Like, the book doesn't even talk about this. And I think it's mainly cuz, you know, we have a hard intuition of this It's hard to think about this velocity edition. Formula. Right? That that's that's the big thing. Right. And somehow it comes very natural with angles, right? And I think that's just because we live every day with these big angles, right? There's no such, you know, it's not like we live in a world where there's only small angles. There's we run into big angles all the time. And I think that's why we kind of have this intuition with angles that we don't have with velocities. Okay, so like for instance, If you have a slope. Right, if you had a slope of one. Right with me, 45° and you were going to tilt this. You're going to tilt this up by another and you're going to add to this. Another slope of one. You would never say, oh, the final slope is two. It's 1 + 1. Is two. Right. And That's like 65° or something. But you would never say that you were just add the angles. You'd say, well, you should do is it's 45. + 45 is 90. So the slope is infinite. Right. Because are we just naturally in our head, think of the angles? And not, not the slopes Okay. And that's because we're built in to think about the right thing here. Whereas our intuition from from classical physics is to talk about. Is to talk about the beta, not the beta. Okay, talk about the velocity. Not this velocity perimeter or velocity angle.

Okay.

Good. So now I just want to motivate or I want to sketch the argument of how you can prove that this is true. Okay, there's probably a bunch of ways to do it. The way that I kind of think about it uses a trip. Take us by the way, I think it's enough. If you think, you know, if you have something that has this edition formula and this limiting factor. I think that's all you need to say that. It's not going to be

the tanning.

That's the same as tangent just from those facts. Okay, but here's kind of cool way to do it. So in the, let's think of the Euclidian case, do you cleaning case? We know That are. You can describe in terms of some angle, right? That's that's Why prime? Find theta. X minus x prime. Find data plus. That's prime plus sign y prime.

If you have right kind of either over Ada, that goes to one. Asada goes to zero, Coefficient of the Taylor Swift.

Okay, so everybody's happy with this. Right? You could prove that this way to prove this, I'm not going to do it. But with this is nice is because it inherently builds in the fact that it preserves x

squared plus y squared.

Equals x² + y5². And that's ultimately do these properties. East Coast mines right cosine theta squared, plus sine theta squared. Equals one, and that's exactly what you need. Right. When you square this, you're going to get a cosine squared piece. You're going to get a side squared piece. The minus sign kills across her. And this property preserves the engineering Okay, so that's a slick thing to do. And, Prove this. It's the uses trick. And then, so this is what this is, what this interval, of course, the interval we care about Is let me write in a different way. The interval we care about is x squared. Minus the square and you usually we usually if you usually t squared minus x squared, Okay, so if you think of the interval in this way, now you can let T equal. I * capital T. If you introduce some new variable, That's that's why this is the square root of -1 * big T. And now the invariant Is capital T squared.

Plus x square.

Right. And so now, the invariant is exactly the Euclidian invariant and we know how to write. We know how to write this in terms of an angle. So, now we can write You can write capital T. As. As cosine. Theta. Capital key in the crime frame. Plus sine theta. Maybe I should do anything like this. Prime. And then x. Similarly, it's now minus sign. What's going on data? Prime rifles exactly the same transformation because repeating the same. Okay, but of course I don't care about this capital T. We care about regular tea, right? We care about the real thing that we actually measure. And so that if we put in the eyes now so we know that this has got to be right. If we now put in, put this back in. We get what IT? Is equal to, i cosine. Beta t. Plus sign. They the x prime. Minus, i sign. Costco sign. Okay. And so now let's let's try to kill the eyes while if we multiply this by minus. I That's going to kill this eye and this eye and this will give you a minus. I

So, why does that make you become like IT or -

You're right. Yeah, right.

Walker plants.

Okay, so now let's get, let's try to get rid of these eyes. So we want to fly by Yeah, I multiply my eye. Could kill this eye.

I

was going to multiply by negative eye, but Yeah, he brought up that made mistakes and Allison's multiply my eye. So that's going to put an eye here. If I square this, I'm going to get minus t squared.

And

then I'm taking minus of t-squares. It's going to be plus t squared. Right. Okay, so let's think. So yeah, so I put in this Little T. Okay, multiply by i And, I guess here I can, I can, I can put this this eye. I can write I can multiply by i over. I put the eye up here. Anyways. Now, let's look at this. Okay.

No, I'm just multiplying this by

eye. I'm just putting the iron in the numerator. So, I had so I have before, I had one over I and I'm saying, I can write that as high

as

plus eye. Okay, so now here's the trick. Let's stare at this These things are real. Right. T is a real number x is a real number. But we have apparently imaginary numbers here. So, the only way for this not to be ridiculous. Is if sine theta is imaginary. If signed data is imaginary, that's going to kill this month, I And leave me something that's real. Okay, so sign theta has to be If I data has to be imaginary, Has to be equal to, you know how to equal to ice on some number. Right. And the only way to do that is, if theta Is imaginary. If theta is I and I think I want to minus here. Yeah, maybe you can check this

for homework. But let's let's if theta is

imaginary It's fully imaginary then. This sign sign. The imaginary thing is going to give me imaginary number times. A real number. That's what we need. And we're not going to screw up the cosine. The cosine is going to stay real. Right. And so with this is telling you anyway. So this is a cute way to see this that the actual rent chance you can write the rest transformation. In terms of instead of the betas and the gammas. And I'll end with this. I'll end with this. They write it in terms of. X is equal to cosh. Ada X Prime. Ada. Keep Prime. T is equal to Ada x prime plus cash. Ada. Okay. And the cool thing is that these eight is now at Okay, Aiden Ave. And you can, you can commit yourself. Posh Ada is going to get me gamma? Essentiator. Is is going to be beta gamma, right? You could just see that from. We're not transformations. And I said that can't aida. He's going to be beta, and that's Sign over cosine and kill this gallon. You just left with that. Okay, so indeed, there is a much more natural way to think about the The rent transformation. It's more natural. Because it has this property that they simply add. He's at the velocity parameters just add and the velocity parameter is related to the normal parameter that we have intuition about by this hyperbolic tension. Okay. And that comes about because you need You need an imaginary angle, so it's like a rotation. So, what's happening here? It's kind of like a rotation in the imaginary rotation of these axis. Right? It's an imaginary rotation. One of the dimensions and that's because the metric or the invariant has a minus sign. Right? You're screwing something getting minus

sign. So it's

the analogy. There is a deep analogy to the Lorenz case, or until you put in case. But it has One of the court that says an eye in it. Okay, that eye makes all these things hyperbolic instead of regular. Okay. Good. So we'll end here until like I heard like you did this problem right? Where I had you go from from coordinate system one to two, from two to three Right? And you had to use this goofy formula each time. Now, you can just do you can figure out what tang Of 0.9 is and take that and add it and then add it again. And that's the answer. And so this is a much simpler way

to do a lot of problems. So Ada.

Well it's it's the slope of the

And

we we expect that it's not going to be an angle because it's not a rotation,

right? So

really yeah, so remember beta is like this slope and or this slope is beta So if you want yeah, tangent us here, you could. Yeah. What's that? I'm going to imaginary numbers are real. Imaginary is a bad name, right? Imaginary is real, they're real. People just lack the imagination and that's why they called them. Imagine Lateral numbers. I I don't know anything about later. Okay. I mean, imaginary makes it sound sexy, right? But I mean, it's like the y-axis is the y-axis. Right. Okay.

You're very concerned about That's true. That's true. Homework one is there. Right? And then Chachi PT. Where do I find homework? So homework. If you go to the assignments,

That's like what time? There's another PDF poses. And I'll do that for homework, too. Probably later today.

It's your job February. When it's getting squished, right? So let's see. Yeah, I don't know. Someone else has that question. You might be able to think of it like that because I don't know. I don't know. It could be To give you if your graphite Then Carson City that I thought you were so much longer. So, you're okay. Yeah, I have a meeting at the meeting at 3 minutes. So it's just asking does it look like this? Yeah, that's true. Good.